Proposal: Cluster Scheduler (#2)
dev-sys-do/orka: docs/proposals/scheduler/README.md

# Orka - Cluster Scheduler

## Requirements

### Service provided

The Scheduler is responsible for scheduling workloads across the cluster nodes.
It is the interface between the Controller and the Agent.

### Scope

The Scheduler is responsible for:

> - Sending workload scheduling/re-scheduling

Reviewer: I think you meant:

```suggestion
- Scheduling and re-scheduling `orka` workloads
```

# Orka - Cluster Scheduler

## Requirements

### Service provided

> The Scheduler is responsible for the scheduling of nodes and workloads.

Reviewer: I don't think the scheduler is responsible for scheduling nodes.

```suggestion
The Scheduler is responsible for scheduling workloads across the cluster nodes.
```

Reviewer 2: [Done](https://github.com/dev-sys-do/orka/pull/2/commits/c05d47b3a14bf86d2dfef03cd4951d34367a2390#diff-a921ddd7f6a17dde09ca710e0254a45c8cf87c34b6872502dc8c80d5ab43c556R8)!

It is the interface between the Controller and the Agent.

### Scope

The Scheduler is reponsible for:

- Sending workload scheduling/re-scheduling

>     - Re-scheduling can happen upon Agent disconnection

Reviewer: There are other conditions for rescheduling like e.g. liveness of pods. You either want to enumerate all the conditions the scheduler will support or not get into that level of details.

Reviewer 2: [Done](https://github.com/dev-sys-do/orka/pull/2/commits/c05d47b3a14bf86d2dfef03cd4951d34367a2390#diff-a921ddd7f6a17dde09ca710e0254a45c8cf87c34b6872502dc8c80d5ab43c556L16)! It's been removed because we can't build an exhaustive list at the time.

- Nodes and Workload Instances status updates
    - received from the Agents
    - sent to the Controller
- Handling of Agent connection

>     - the Scheduler is responsible for the handshake

Reviewer: What's the handshake here?

Reviewer 2: The handshake here refers to accepting incoming connections from agents that want to join the cluster (so establishing the secure connection, authorizing the agent and remembering it). It's been [reworded](https://github.com/dev-sys-do/orka/pull/2/commits/c05d47b3a14bf86d2dfef03cd4951d34367a2390#diff-a921ddd7f6a17dde09ca710e0254a45c8cf87c34b6872502dc8c80d5ab43c556R20).

>     - secure connection should be made between Agent and Scheduler

Reviewer: should or must?

Reviewer 2: [Done](https://github.com/dev-sys-do/orka/pull/2/commits/c05d47b3a14bf86d2dfef03cd4951d34367a2390#diff-a921ddd7f6a17dde09ca710e0254a45c8cf87c34b6872502dc8c80d5ab43c556R21)! It's a "must".

> The Scheduler is NOT responsible for:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Out of Scope

The scheduler is not responsible for:
```

Reviewer 2: [Done](https://github.com/dev-sys-do/orka/pull/2/commits/c05d47b3a14bf86d2dfef03cd4951d34367a2390#diff-a921ddd7f6a17dde09ca710e0254a45c8cf87c34b6872502dc8c80d5ab43c556R23)!

- Workload management (creation/update/deletion)
- Node management (connection/disconnection)
    - the Scheduler is only receiving status updates

>     - the Agent is responsible for its connection and disconnection to the Scheduler

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - the Agent is responsible for its connecting and disconnecting to the Scheduler
```

Reviewer 2: [Done](https://github.com/dev-sys-do/orka/pull/2/commits/c05d47b3a14bf86d2dfef03cd4951d34367a2390#diff-a921ddd7f6a17dde09ca710e0254a45c8cf87c34b6872502dc8c80d5ab43c556R28)!

- Rescheduling workloads automatically in case of an Agent disconnection

>     - this is the Controller's responsbility
>     - the Controller needs to call the Scheduler with a reschedule order

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Workload lifecycle management is the Controller's responsibility
```

Reviewer 2: [Done](https://github.com/dev-sys-do/orka/pull/2/commits/c05d47b3a14bf86d2dfef03cd4951d34367a2390#diff-a921ddd7f6a17dde09ca710e0254a45c8cf87c34b6872502dc8c80d5ab43c556R30)!
